# Computational-prediction-of-CYP3A4-catalyzed-metabolic-activation-and-in-vitro-validation
Metabolic activation mediated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes has been attributed as the main reason for idiosyncratic adverse drug reactions (IADR). Much concern has been paid to what molecular region will undergo the activation against the special isoform. Herein, an integrated machine learning and structure-based method was established to predict the metabolism mediated by CYP3A4, and the metabolic activation region. Basically, machine learning models were developed to discriminate the substrates, among which, the SVM illustrated the best predictability, with AUC value of 0.947 for the test, outperforming previously published models. Subsequently, the structure-based models were built for the different structure types specifying the most effective scoring function against the special receptor structure. As a result, 88.0% of activation sites in the test set can be specified out. This integrated method was used to discriminate the metabolic activation sites of an external set, out of which, 361 novel molecules were predicted as the substrates of CYP3A4, and 95 novel metabolic activation sites for 82 drugs were recognized. Furthermore, ruxolitinib, sofosbuvir, and relugolix were selected out to perform the IC50 shift assays against CYP3A4 in vitro. 5~40 folds of shift were observed for the former two drugs, suggesting they can be bio-transformed into reactive metabolites by CYP3A4. And relugolix which served as the negative example was not observed of any shift. Therefore, this strategy is effective in recognizing metabolic reaction site and it will be helpful in the rational design of drugs, or the avoidance of IADR in clinic.
